>> Sean Larkin: There's three
ways that you can use Webpack.
I know you've probably heard
of the config, the config.
What's unique about it is that
like most tools that are,
you use through your JavaScript apps in
your friend and applications, they're all
written in node js, and so Webpack
config is just a common JS module right?
You see the module.exports?
It's just an object that has a bunch
of properties that just describes
the Webpack.
What should I be doing with this code?
And the we have a CLI,
basically you could if you wanted to.
Almost every single property is bound
to CLI arguments and parameters, so
you can use it in this way
without even touching a config.
And especially now with Webpack 4,
the mode property, and
not even needing a config out of the box,
it's considerably easier.
And then we have a Node API.
So have you ever wanted to
make your own Webpack wrapper?
There's lots of things like Neutrino and
joy,
and there's a whole bunch
that are out there, but
they leverage the Webpack node API,
basically doing the exact same thing.
The caveat is that you basically have
to bring your own stats, feedback, and
reporter, and console information.
All of that doesn't happen out of the box.
>> Sean Larkin: So
do you have any questions so far about the
ecosystem, about kind of the evolution?
Does it maybe frame
things a little better?
Why are we using bundlers today?
Why are they still considered
the canonical standard for
building web applications?
And hopefully that kind
of puts more context.
Really when you think about where we came
from to why we're trying to do these
things are all about performance and
being able to scale it, but
also being able to maintain it.
And having this module system,
especially ESM,
has really transformed the opportunities
that are possible with bundlers.
And there is no other syntax that
is as unique as the ES module spec,
so much so that it is now being adopted
by other programming languages.
C++ has RFCs right now to consider
adopting this module syntax,
because it's so profound and so
powerful for stack analysis.
You think back to,
I worked on objective C, so I think of,
you gotta include a bunch of headers and
you just include crap.
And you don't care,
like how much it costs you, but
we don't have that luxury in the web,
right?
We have to care how much code
we're compiling and shipping.
And so even the WebAssembly
specification is now modeled exactly,
almost identically in the same way
from the ES Module specification.
So, I don't know why Rust decided
to do their own thing, but
I love Rust and
they have a weird extern thing.
I'm hoping that they
change that in the future.
Let's hope so.